Motion sickness can occur when you travel
by car, train, boat or airplane.
When your brain receives conflicting signals
from your eyes, inner ears, muscles and joints
you begin to feel queasy and sweaty.
For example, if you’re reading while sitting in a car
your eyes may not sense motion
but your inner ear can detect that you are moving.
This disturbance originates from
the labyrinth of the inner ear
the mechanism that controls balance.
The inner ear—which contains, fluid
and hair-like sensors linked to nerves
send a message to the brain that does not
match what the eyes are seeing
or the body is experiencing.
Symptoms of motion sickness include:
Dizziness
Cold sweat
Paleness
Nausea
and Vomiting
There are a number of ways to reduce
or treat the effects of motion sickness:
Maintain good air circulation.
Don’t stay below deck in a boat
or look out the window in an airplane.
Close your eyes if you begin to feel nauseous.
Avoid reading or using a computer while in motion.
Avoid alcohol.
Consume ginger.
Eat small amounts of low-fat,
starchy foods such as soda crackers.
Consider using over the counter medication
or a skin patch if you will be on a boat
or plane for a long period of time.
Motion sickness usually goes away
after you stop engaging
in the activity that caused it.
If you experience severe motion sickness,
consult a doctor.
You may require surgery or
a prescription for a stronger medication.